INSTALL.md, before:

# Frigate Event Buffer — Console install

Install and run via the command line only (no Dockge). Clone the repo so the **repo root** is the directory that contains `Dockerfile` and `src/`. All commands below are run from that directory or use its path.

**Required layout:** This guide assumes the repo has **`src/`** (with `src/frigate_buffer/` inside). If your `ls` shows `frigate_buffer/` at root instead of `src/`, you may be on a branch with a different layout. Switch to **`main`** (or the branch that has `src/`): run `git checkout main` then `git pull`, and confirm with `ls` that you have `Dockerfile` and `src/`.

## Prerequisites

- Docker (no compose required; we use `docker build` and `docker run` only).
- For GPU decode (NVDEC): The image includes FFmpeg with NVDEC support for hardware-accelerated frame reading. At runtime you need an NVIDIA GPU, driver, and [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html) (e.g. `docker run --gpus all`). Set `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility` so the container can use the GPU for decoding.

---

## 1. Clean (if you had a previous install)

From the directory where you will clone or already have the repo:

```bash
docker stop frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null
docker rm frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null
docker rmi frigate-buffer:latest 2>/dev/null || true
```

---

## 2. Clone the repo

**Into a new folder** (replace `/mnt/user/appdata` with any parent path you want):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata
git clone https://github.com/jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git frigate-buffer
cd frigate-buffer
```

You are now in the repo root. Your prompt should show that path (e.g. `root@Tower:/mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer#`). **Check layout:** run `ls` and ensure you see **`Dockerfile`** and **`src/`**. If you see `frigate_buffer/` at root instead of `src/`, run `git checkout main` and `git pull`, then continue. If you cloned somewhere else, replace `/mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer` in the `cd` commands below with your repo root path.

**If Git prompts for username/password or says "Password authentication is not supported":** GitHub no longer accepts account passwords for HTTPS. Use either:
- **SSH** (if you have SSH keys added to GitHub): `git clone git@github.com:jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git frigate-buffer`
- **Personal Access Token (PAT):** At GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens, create a token (repo scope). When prompted for password, paste the token instead of your account password.

**Avoid being prompted every time:** After the first successful login you can have Git remember credentials.
- **Option A — Store (saves on disk):** From the repo root run `git config --global credential.helper store`. The next time you enter username and PAT, Git will save them (in `~/.git-credentials`) and reuse them for future pulls/fetches.
- **Option B — Cache (memory only, for a while):** Run `git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout=86400'` to cache for 24 hours so you’re not asked again in that period.
- **Option C — Use SSH:** If you use SSH to clone (or switch the remote to SSH), you won’t be prompted for a password as long as your SSH key is loaded. To switch an existing clone to SSH: `cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer` then `git remote set-url origin git@github.com:jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git`. Then `git pull` and future pulls use SSH (no user/pass).

**If you get `fatal: destination path 'frigate-buffer' already exists and is not empty`:**
- If that folder **has a git repo** (contains `.git`): `cd frigate-buffer` then `git pull`, then continue from step 3.
- Otherwise use a different name: `git clone ... frigate-buffer-app` and `cd frigate-buffer-app`.

**If you prefer to clone into an existing empty directory** (e.g. you already created it):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
git clone https://github.com/jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git .
```

**If you get `fatal: destination path '.' already exists and is not empty`:**

- If it **already has a clone** (contains `.git`): `git pull` and continue from step 3.
- If it's **not a git repo**: clone into a new folder instead (see first clone block above; use a different folder name if needed).

You must have `Dockerfile` and `src/` in the current directory (repo root).

---

## 3. Config

Create and edit your config. The paths below match the `docker run` in step 6; change them if you use different paths.

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
mkdir -p /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer
cp config.example.yaml /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml
# Edit config.yaml: cameras, FRIGATE_URL, MQTT_BROKER, etc.
nano /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml
```

---

## 4. Build

From repo root (prompt should show `.../frigate-buffer#`):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .
```

**Fast build option (development only):** The default build swaps opencv-python for opencv-python-headless to avoid X11 dependencies, which takes 15+ minutes. For faster iteration during development, use the GUI version (accepts the opencv that ultralytics pulls in):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest --build-arg USE_GUI_OPENCV=true .
```

Trade-off: Fast builds complete in ~1-2 minutes but produce an image ~100-150 MB larger with X11 dependencies. Use the default (headless) for production deployments.

---

## 5. Run

Run from repo root. **Use the same env vars and volume paths as in your `docker-compose.yaml`**; the command below mirrors that file. The only value you must change is **`HA_IP`** — replace `YOUR_HOME_ASSISTANT_IP` with your Home Assistant IP (or leave it if you set it in the compose). If you use different paths or IPs in `docker-compose.yaml`, use those here instead.

If a container named `frigate_buffer` already exists, stop and remove it first: `docker stop frigate_buffer` then `docker rm frigate_buffer`. The commands below do that automatically.

**With NVIDIA GPU:** Use `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility` (the `video` capability is required for NVDEC decode; some hosts e.g. Unraid need this explicit list).

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker stop frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null; docker rm frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null || true
docker run -d --name frigate_buffer --restart unless-stopped \
  --network bridge \
  -p 5055:5055 \
  -v /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer:/app/storage \
  -v /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml:/app/config.yaml:ro \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -e HA_IP=YOUR_HOME_ASSISTANT_IP \
  -e FRIGATE_URL=http://REDACTED_LOCAL_IP:5000 \
  -e MQTT_BROKER=REDACTED_LOCAL_IP \
  -e MQTT_PORT=1883 \
  -e RETENTION_DAYS=3 \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=INFO \
  -e NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
  -e NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility \
  --gpus all \
  frigate-buffer:latest
```

The app uses the storage volume for Ultralytics config and the YOLO model cache: `storage/ultralytics/` (settings) and `storage/yolo_models/` (downloaded weights). These persist across restarts so you won’t see the config-directory warning or re-download the model each boot. You do not need to set `YOLO_CONFIG_DIR` unless you want to override this.
## 6. Update (after code changes)

From repo root:

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
git pull
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .
# Then run the same docker run command from step 5 again.
```

## restart docker
docker restart frigate_buffer

## Switching branches

To use a different branch (e.g. a feature branch or `main`):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer   # or your repo root
git fetch origin
git checkout main
git pull
```

Replace `<branch-name>` with the branch you want (e.g. `main`, `Multi_Cam_Review`). If you have uncommitted changes, either commit or stash them first, or Git may refuse to switch. After switching, rebuild the image (step 4) and rerun the container (step 5) if the code changed.

---



If `git pull` reports that local changes would be overwritten by merge (e.g. to a file that was removed upstream), discard those changes then pull: run `git checkout -- <file>` for each file listed (or `git restore <file>`), then run `git pull` again and continue with the build and restart steps.

---

## Troubleshooting

- **FFmpeg / NVDEC decode issues** — The image uses FFmpeg for decode only (no encoding). Rebuild from this repo (`docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .`) and run with GPU access (`--gpus all` and NVIDIA env vars). Set **`NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility`** (the `video` capability is required for NVDEC). Check startup logs for decode-related errors; inside the container you can run `nvidia-smi` to confirm the GPU is visible.
- **Build fails with "frigate_buffer" or "config.example" not found** — You are not in the repo root. `cd` to the directory that contains `Dockerfile` and `src/frigate_buffer/`.
- **"Reader process died for camera … read of closed file"** — If multiple NVDEC readers fail, check GPU memory and driver; CPU decode is used only as fallback. You can set `multi_cam.decode_second_camera_cpu_only: true` to force 2nd+ cameras to CPU decode if needed (legacy workaround).

Commit message:

nelux test run in video compilation

INSTALL.md, after:

# Frigate Event Buffer — Console install

Install and run via the command line only (no Dockge). Clone the repo so the **repo root** is the directory that contains `Dockerfile` and `src/`. All commands below are run from that directory or use its path.

**Required layout:** This guide assumes the repo has **`src/`** (with `src/frigate_buffer/` inside). If your `ls` shows `frigate_buffer/` at root instead of `src/`, you may be on a branch with a different layout. Switch to **`main`** (or the branch that has `src/`): run `git checkout main` then `git pull`, and confirm with `ls` that you have `Dockerfile` and `src/`.

## Prerequisites

- Docker (no compose required; we use `docker build` and `docker run` only).
- For GPU decode (NVDEC): The image includes FFmpeg with NVDEC support for hardware-accelerated frame reading. At runtime you need an NVIDIA GPU, driver, and [NVIDIA Container Toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html) (e.g. `docker run --gpus all`). Set `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility` so the container can use the GPU for decoding.
- **Summary video compilation** uses the **NeLux** library (NVDEC decode, NVENC encode) for a zero-copy GPU pipeline. NeLux requires PyTorch with CUDA, which is already installed for Ultralytics YOLO. Ensure the same GPU/driver and `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility` are available so compilation can run on the GPU.

---

## 1. Clean (if you had a previous install)

From the directory where you will clone or already have the repo:

```bash
docker stop frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null
docker rm frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null
docker rmi frigate-buffer:latest 2>/dev/null || true
```

---

## 2. Clone the repo

**Into a new folder** (replace `/mnt/user/appdata` with any parent path you want):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata
git clone https://github.com/jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git frigate-buffer
cd frigate-buffer
```

You are now in the repo root. Your prompt should show that path (e.g. `root@Tower:/mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer#`). **Check layout:** run `ls` and ensure you see **`Dockerfile`** and **`src/`**. If you see `frigate_buffer/` at root instead of `src/`, run `git checkout main` and `git pull`, then continue. If you cloned somewhere else, replace `/mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer` in the `cd` commands below with your repo root path.

**If Git prompts for username/password or says "Password authentication is not supported":** GitHub no longer accepts account passwords for HTTPS. Use either:
- **SSH** (if you have SSH keys added to GitHub): `git clone git@github.com:jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git frigate-buffer`
- **Personal Access Token (PAT):** At GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens, create a token (repo scope). When prompted for password, paste the token instead of your account password.

**Avoid being prompted every time:** After the first successful login you can have Git remember credentials.
- **Option A — Store (saves on disk):** From the repo root run `git config --global credential.helper store`. The next time you enter username and PAT, Git will save them (in `~/.git-credentials`) and reuse them for future pulls/fetches.
- **Option B — Cache (memory only, for a while):** Run `git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout=86400'` to cache for 24 hours so you’re not asked again in that period.
- **Option C — Use SSH:** If you use SSH to clone (or switch the remote to SSH), you won’t be prompted for a password as long as your SSH key is loaded. To switch an existing clone to SSH: `cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer` then `git remote set-url origin git@github.com:jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git`. Then `git pull` and future pulls use SSH (no user/pass).

**If you get `fatal: destination path 'frigate-buffer' already exists and is not empty`:**
- If that folder **has a git repo** (contains `.git`): `cd frigate-buffer` then `git pull`, then continue from step 3.
- Otherwise use a different name: `git clone ... frigate-buffer-app` and `cd frigate-buffer-app`.

**If you prefer to clone into an existing empty directory** (e.g. you already created it):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
git clone https://github.com/jballard86/frigate-event-buffer.git .
```

**If you get `fatal: destination path '.' already exists and is not empty`:**

- If it **already has a clone** (contains `.git`): `git pull` and continue from step 3.
- If it's **not a git repo**: clone into a new folder instead (see first clone block above; use a different folder name if needed).

You must have `Dockerfile` and `src/` in the current directory (repo root).

---

## 3. Config

Create and edit your config. The paths below match the `docker run` in step 6; change them if you use different paths.

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
mkdir -p /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer
cp config.example.yaml /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml
# Edit config.yaml: cameras, FRIGATE_URL, MQTT_BROKER, etc.
nano /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml
```

---

## 4. Build

From repo root (prompt should show `.../frigate-buffer#`):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .
```

**Fast build option (development only):** The default build swaps opencv-python for opencv-python-headless to avoid X11 dependencies, which takes 15+ minutes. For faster iteration during development, use the GUI version (accepts the opencv that ultralytics pulls in):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest --build-arg USE_GUI_OPENCV=true .
```

Trade-off: Fast builds complete in ~1-2 minutes but produce an image ~100-150 MB larger with X11 dependencies. Use the default (headless) for production deployments.

---

## 5. Run

Run from repo root. **Use the same env vars and volume paths as in your `docker-compose.yaml`**; the command below mirrors that file. The only value you must change is **`HA_IP`** — replace `YOUR_HOME_ASSISTANT_IP` with your Home Assistant IP (or leave it if you set it in the compose). If you use different paths or IPs in `docker-compose.yaml`, use those here instead.

If a container named `frigate_buffer` already exists, stop and remove it first: `docker stop frigate_buffer` then `docker rm frigate_buffer`. The commands below do that automatically.

**With NVIDIA GPU:** Use `NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility` (the `video` capability is required for NVDEC decode; some hosts e.g. Unraid need this explicit list).

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
docker stop frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null; docker rm frigate_buffer 2>/dev/null || true
docker run -d --name frigate_buffer --restart unless-stopped \
  --network bridge \
  -p 5055:5055 \
  -v /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer:/app/storage \
  -v /mnt/user/appdata/frigate_buffer/config.yaml:/app/config.yaml:ro \
  -v /etc/localtime:/etc/localtime:ro \
  -e HA_IP=YOUR_HOME_ASSISTANT_IP \
  -e FRIGATE_URL=http://REDACTED_LOCAL_IP:5000 \
  -e MQTT_BROKER=REDACTED_LOCAL_IP \
  -e MQTT_PORT=1883 \
  -e RETENTION_DAYS=3 \
  -e LOG_LEVEL=INFO \
  -e NVIDIA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
  -e NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility \
  --gpus all \
  frigate-buffer:latest
```

The app uses the storage volume for Ultralytics config and the YOLO model cache: `storage/ultralytics/` (settings) and `storage/yolo_models/` (downloaded weights). These persist across restarts so you won’t see the config-directory warning or re-download the model each boot. You do not need to set `YOLO_CONFIG_DIR` unless you want to override this.
## 6. Update (after code changes)

Pull and Build:

```bash
**Fast pull and build option (development only):**
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
git pull
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest --build-arg USE_GUI_OPENCV=true .

**Slow pull and build option
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer
git pull
docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .
# Then run the same docker run command from step 5 again.
```

## restart docker
docker restart frigate_buffer

## Switching branches

To use a different branch (e.g. a feature branch or `main`):

```bash
cd /mnt/user/appdata/frigate-buffer   # or your repo root
git fetch origin
git checkout main
git pull
```

Replace `<branch-name>` with the branch you want (e.g. `main`, `Multi_Cam_Review`). If you have uncommitted changes, either commit or stash them first, or Git may refuse to switch. After switching, rebuild the image (step 4) and rerun the container (step 5) if the code changed.

---



If `git pull` reports that local changes would be overwritten by merge (e.g. to a file that was removed upstream), discard those changes then pull: run `git checkout -- <file>` for each file listed (or `git restore <file>`), then run `git pull` again and continue with the build and restart steps.

---

## Troubleshooting

- **FFmpeg / NVDEC decode issues** — The image uses FFmpeg for decode only (no encoding). Rebuild from this repo (`docker build -t frigate-buffer:latest .`) and run with GPU access (`--gpus all` and NVIDIA env vars). Set **`NVIDIA_DRIVER_CAPABILITIES=compute,video,utility`** (the `video` capability is required for NVDEC). Check startup logs for decode-related errors; inside the container you can run `nvidia-smi` to confirm the GPU is visible.
- **Build fails with "frigate_buffer" or "config.example" not found** — You are not in the repo root. `cd` to the directory that contains `Dockerfile` and `src/frigate_buffer/`.
- **"Reader process died for camera … read of closed file"** — If multiple NVDEC readers fail, check GPU memory and driver; CPU decode is used only as fallback. You can set `multi_cam.decode_second_camera_cpu_only: true` to force 2nd+ cameras to CPU decode if needed (legacy workaround).
